# Install K3S

## Requirements

- cURL

## Overview

We are going to use K3S instead of other distributions because it's a lightweight Kubernetes and easy to setup. K3S helps us choose some software to make our cluster as light as possible.

- Storage: `sqlite3`. In the production environment, I use `etcd3` to create a High Availability cluster
- Ingress: [traefik](https://traefik.io). But I'm familiar with `Nginx`, so I decided to turn it off and install `Nginx` by myself. If you are interested in `traefik`, you should keep them on.

## Installation

We will use the folder `~/.kube` as root of our cluster configurations. If it's not exist in your instance, please create it by command

```
mkdir ~/.kube
```

### Master Node

```
curl -sfL https://get.k3s.io | sh -s - --write-kubeconfig ~/.kube/kubeconfig --write-kubeconfig-mode 644 --disable traefik
```

You are installing `K3S` with some options

- Write down `kubeconfig` file to `~/.kube/kubeconfig` with the mode `644`
- Disable `traefik`. We will install it later

Then, configure your _run commands scripts_ (`.bashrc` in my case) like this

```bash
# Kubernetes
export KUBECONFIG=~/.kube/kubeconfig

# Kubernetes tools execute path
if [ -d "~/.kube/libs/bin" ];then PATH="$PATH:~/.kube/libs/bin"; fi
```

After install `K3S`, you have to defined [KUBECONFIG](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/#the-kubeconfig-environment-variable) to allow command `kubectl` access to your server.

Furthermore, we detect if a bin folder of 3rd libraries are existed, we will add them to execute path. That configuration allows all commands of our 3rd libraries are executable. For example, we will install `Helm` in next chapter. You have to **create** it if it was not exist in your server by command `mkdir -p ~/.kube/libs/bin/`

In the end, apply that configs by command `source ~/.bashrc` then verify your cluster is up

```
$ kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
NAMESPACE     NAME                                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
kube-system   metrics-server-7b4f8b595-hlq66           1/1     Running   0          40s
kube-system   local-path-provisioner-7ff9579c6-p7vcm   1/1     Running   0          40s
kube-system   coredns-66c464876b-lc7z2                 1/1     Running   0          40s
```

### Worker Node

If you want to join current node to the cluster, you have to defined two variables in your instance:

- `K3S_TOKEN` The authentication token, you can find them at the path `/var/lib/rancher/k3s/server/token` with root permission.
- `K3S_URL` The authentication URL point to your master node. Example: **https://192.168.64.4:6443**

Then install our worker node by command

```
export K3S_TOKEN=K1074ce5b9f7e54d0b32b95c600712e265323f8c7cb2c8a256542a3ccfd6158b0e2::server:12b47fd5942b493145f5acd54674d71f
export K3S_URL=https://192.168.64.4:6443
curl -sfL https://get.k3s.io | sh -
```

You don't need to configure _run commands scripts_ in worker node. All things should be done at master node.

## Remove

### Master Node

It's easy to uninstall `K3S` by execute script

```
/usr/local/bin/k3s-uninstall.sh
```

### Worker Node

In worker node, you have to execute another file to uninstall `K3S`

```
usr/local/bin/k3s-agent-uninstall.sh
```

## Summary

`K3S` has a lot of options to setup your cluster. You should check it out at [Installation Options](https://rancher.com/docs/k3s/latest/en/installation/install-options/)
