# Install Helm

## Requirements

- cURL

## Overview

Like `npm` of NodeJS, Kuerbetes ecosystem also has the package manager, it's `Helm`. You can install a version of package, then remove it whenever you want by an efficient way. Furthermore, `Helm` is a great tool to integrate with our GitOps workflow that I will introduce to you after several chapters later.

## Installation

First, you have to define some variables that allow you to determine your installation process

- `ARCH`: The architecture of your current OS. In Ubuntu, you can get it by command `dpkg --print-architecture`
- `HELM_VERSION`: The name is said all things.

Here is an example of environment variables

```bash
export ARCH=$(dpkg --print-architecture)
export HELM_VERSION=v3.0.2
```

Second, download the binary by the URL template `https://get.helm.sh/helm-$HELM_VERSION-linux-$ARCH.tar.gz`. Here is example command that download the file then put to temporary folder.

```bash
curl -L https://get.helm.sh/helm-$HELM_VERSION-linux-$ARCH.tar.gz -o /tmp/helm.tar.gz
```

Third, extract your tarball

```bash
gzip -f -d /tmp/helm.tar.gz
tar -xf /tmp/helm.tar -C /tmp
```

Finally, move the binary to a folder that is added to your execute path (the `PATH`) then grant them necessary permissions

```bash
sudo mv /tmp/linux-$ARCH/helm ~/.kube/libs/bin/helm
sudo chmod +x ~/.kube/libs/bin/helm
```

Do you remember the folder `~/.kube/libs/bin` in the previous chapter? You had to create it before, so you can move the `Helm` command to it. Now, it's time to test our process, please execute command bellow and verify that the output is show you version of Helm

```bash
$ helm version
version.BuildInfo{Version:"v3.0.2", GitCommit:"19e47ee3283ae98139d98460de796c1be1e3975f", GitTreeState:"clean", GoVersion:"go1.13.5"}
```

## Remove

You only need to remove the binary file at `~/.kube/libs/bin/helm` to uninstall `Helm`. That's all.
