# Install Ingress

## Requirements

- cURL
- Helm

## Overview

Networking should be the top priority thing you will put attention on first. Almost time, I only a simple ingress, but if you are working in a large micro services system, [Istio](https://istio.io/) is something you are looking for.

Back to our case, `traefik` is a super cool tool that allow you to manage application traffic from outside into your cluster. So, that why we call them _ingress_ tool. I used to use `traefik` to handle most applications at my company before went to Kubernetes. So, if you are used to working with `traefik`, you can keep using it and ignore this chapter.

The main reason I have to switch to [Ingress Nginx](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/) is my teammates are only familiar with `Nginx`.
We are using a lot of `Nginx` proxies and load balancer in production, so it's a good idea to keep using it in Kubernetes.

**IMPORTANT**: Don't confuse [Ingress Nginx](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/) and [NGINX Ingress](https://www.nginx.com/products/nginx-ingress-controller/). The first one is a library that is Google product, and the second is NGINX Corp's product. So, when we mention `Ingress Nginx`, we are talking about the library wrote by Google.

### Installation

First, have to define some variables

- `INGRESS_NAMESPACE`: As you know, namespace is a dedicated workspace that you can group all relative resources to on place. So, it's the best idea to use a meaningful name such as `ingress`, `ingress-nginx` and so forth.
- `INGRESS_RELEASE_NAME`: Because we will use `Helm` to create all resources, you have to define the name of your release. I recommend using names like `ingress-v0.30` or `ingress-nginx-v0.43`

Here is an example of environment variables

```bash
export INGRESS_NAMESPACE=ingress-nginx
export INGRESS_RELEASE_NAME=ingress-nginx-v0.30
```

Second, create your namespace by short command

```
kubectl create ns $INGRESS_NAMESPACE
```

> I highly recommended you use a `yaml` file to describe your namespace, then create your namespace by command `kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/yaml`. Because you will want to track which resources you are configured and what is current state of them. That why I want to guide you use `GitOps` later.

Third, add `Nginx Ingress` repo by `Helm` command

```
helm repo add ingress-nginx https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx
helm repo update
```

Finally, install your release by using `Helm` repo above

```
helm install $INGRESS_RELEASE_NAME ingress-nginx/ingress-nginx -n $INGRESS_NAMESPACE
```

Waiting for your deployment with a name `ingress-nginx-controller` is ready, then verify that is OK by command

```bash
$ export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods -n $INGRESS_NAMESPACE -l app.kubernetes.io/name=ingress-nginx -o jsonpath='{.items[*].metadata.name}')
$ kubectl exec -it $POD_NAME -n $INGRESS_NAMESPACE -- /nginx-ingress-controller --version

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NGINX Ingress controller
  Release:       v0.43.0
  Build:         f3f6da12ac7c59b85ae7132f321bc3bcf144af04
  Repository:    https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx
  nginx version: nginx/1.19.6

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

### Remove

It should be uninstall `Ingress Nginx` easily by command

```bash
helm uninstall $INGRESS_RELEASE_NAME -n $INGRESS_NAMESPACE
helm repo remove ingress-nginx # Only use this command if you want to change Helm repo
kubectl delete ns $INGRESS_NAMESPACE
```

But, you have to remove something bellow manually if you don't want to delete your namespace:

- Config Map `ingress-controller-leader-nginx`
- Secret with suffix `ingress-nginx-admission`

I assume it's a bug, but we can fix them by commands

```bash
kubectl delete configmap "ingress-controller-leader-nginx" -n $INGRESS_NAMESPACE

NGINX_ADMISSION_NAME="ingress-nginx-admission"
if [ $INGRESS_NAMESPACE != "ingress-nginx" ];then NGINX_ADMISSION_NAME="$INGRESS_NAMESPACE-$NGINX_ADMISSION_NAME";fi
kubectl delete secret $NGINX_ADMISSION_NAME -n $INGRESS_NAMESPACE
```

A gotcha here is when you chose a name of your namespace that is not `ingress-nginx`, your secret will be prefixed by your namespace. That why the script above had to detected the namespace's name to delete the secret correctly.
